#programmin #JS #React

Что такое рендеринг ? 
В чем отличие рендеринга в реакт и обычном JS ?
Как работает рендеринг в React и как на него влияют хуки ?
Что такое жизненный цикл React компонента ?
Будующее рендеринга React ?
Ререндер и как его избежать ?

-   **Time To First Byte (TTFB)** - The time it takes for the client to receive the first byte of content.
-   **First Paint (FP)** - The time when the first pixel gets visible to the user.
-   **First Contentful Paint (FCP)** - The time it takes for the first piece of content to be visible.
-   **Largest Contentful Paint (LCP)** - The time it takes for the main content of the page to be loaded.
-   **Time To Interactive (TTI)** -The time at which the page becomes interactive and reliably responds to user events.

# Client-Side Rendering (CSR)
#### Advantages of CSR:
-   Since the Client-side rendering architecture comprises static files, it can be very easily served via a CDN.
-   All the rendering is done on the client hence CSR allows us to have navigations without full page refreshes, providing a good UX.
-   The time to the first byte is fast hence the browser can immediately start loading the fonts, CSS, and JavaScript.
- 
#### Problems with CSR:
-   Since all the content is rendered on the client, **performance** takes a big hit because the users first need to download and process it to see the content on the page.
-   Client-side rendering applications usually **fetch the data** they need on the component mount, leading to a bad user experience since they would be greeted with a bunch of loaders on the initial page load. Also, this can get worse if child components have data fetching requirements, but they are not rendered until their parents have fetched all the data, which can lead to a cascade of loaders and a bad network waterfall.
-   Lastly, **SEO** is a problem with client-side rendering applications because web crawlers can easily read the server-rendered HTML, but they might not wait to download all the JavaScript bundles, execute them and wait for the client-side data fetching waterfalls to finish, which can lead to improper indexing.

# Server-side rendering
#### Advantages of SSR:
-   Unlike CSR, SEO is much better since all the HTML is pre-generated from the server and web crawlers have no problem crawling through that.
-   The FCP and LCP are pretty fast. Hence the user has something to see instead of looking at a blank screen like in the case of CSR apps.

#### Problems with SSR:
-   Since we are rendering the page on the server first with every request and have to wait for the data requirements for the page, it can lead to a **slow TTFB,**which can keep the users waiting to look at the browser spinner. This can happen for multiple reasons, including unoptimized server code or many simultaneous server requests.
    
    Although would also like to add that frameworks like Next.js somewhat solve this problem by allowing you to generate pages ahead of time and caching them on the server with techniques like SSG (Static site generation) and ISR (Incremental static site generation).
    
-   Lastly, even though the initial load is fast, the users still have to pay to download all the JavaScript for the page and process it so that the page can be rehydrated and become interactive.

# Streaming SSR

# Server components (Alpha)


# Источники
[The future of rendering in React](https://prateeksurana.me/blog/future-of-rendering-in-react/)